On stability for nonstationary queueing systems with catastrophes

\medskip
{\bf Keywords:} Nonstationary queues; Markovian models with
catastrophes; stability; bounds; limiting characteristics;
approximations.

\medskip

We consider nonstationary birth and death processes (BDPs) with
catastrophes. The bounds of stability for some characteristics of such systems are obtained. We
also  consider a queueing example.



\newpage

Сведения об авторах:

Зейфман Александр Израилевич (1954 г. р.), доктор
физико-математических наук, профессор, декан факультета прикладной
математики и компьютерных технологий Вологодского государственного
педагогического университета, старший научный сотрудник ИПИ РАН,
ведущий научный сотрудник ВНКЦ ЦЭМИ РАН.

Zeifman Alexander I. (b. 1954), doctor of science in physics and
mathematics, professor, dean of the faculty of applied mathematics
and computer technologies, Vologda State Pedagogical University,
senior researcher, Institute of Informatics Problems RAS, leading
researcher, VSCC CEMI RAS.

\medskip
\medskip


Коротышева Анна Владимировна(1988 г. р.), аспирантка факультета
прикладной математики и компьютерных технологий Вологодского
государственного педагогического университета.

Korotysheva Anna V. (b. 1988), PhD student, faculty of applied
mathematics and computer technologies, Vologda State Pedagogical University.


\medskip


Сатин Яков Александрович (1978 г. р.), кандидат
физико-математических наук, старший преподаватель кафедры
математического анализа Вологодского государственного
педагогического университета.

Satin Yakov A. (b. 1978), candidate of of science in physics and
mathematics, senior lecturer, Vologda State Pedagogical University.


\medskip
Шоргин Сергей Яковлевич (1952 г. р.), доктор
физико-математических наук, профессор, заместитель директора ИПИ РАН.


Shorgin Sergey Ya. (b. 1952), doctor of science in physics and
mathematics, professor, deputy director, Institute of Informatics Problems RAS.